Hello friends, welcome to Tippon Sites.
In today's video, we will talk
about claims. After any health
insurance claim is passed,
in how many days does the money come into our account. Today
I am going to tell you in detail about it, that is,
how we submit the bill,
after submission, how many days does it take to process, it takes for
verification and
then when it is verified, it gets processed
and after it is approved, that is,
after it is passed, how many days does it take for the money to come into your account.
In today's video, I am going to tell you in detail.
I was getting a lot of comments for a
long time regarding this thing, so
I thought that a proper video should be
made about it so that everyone can get the answer to this thing
and can easily understand what is the
process and in how many days does the money
come and after it does not come, what
steps do we have to follow. I am going to tell you all these things
in detail in today's video,
so you guys
stay till the end of the video. If you are new to the channel, then
subscribe to the channel and press the bell icon
so that  To keep you updated with new video notifications,
let's begin the video.
[Music] There are
two types of claims in health insurance.
One is a
responsibly settled claim, which is done
individually, meaning the policyholder has to
re-book their bills themselves. This is
called the re-booking process. The
cashless claim process is handled by the hospital.
So, I'm going to tell you about both claims,
how the money for both claims will be credited to your account, what the
process will be, and what
you need to do if it's late or not. I'm also going to
tell you about that in today's video. So,
first, let's talk about a cashless claim.
What happens under a cashless claim is that
whenever we are
admitted to a hospital, the cashless process, the
claim process, the
document processing, is handled by the
TPA team within the hospital.
After our claim is approved, we are discharged, but the
hospital doesn't receive the money immediately.  For
that, the hospital has to send the original documents
there, like the final bill,
discharge summary, whatever
treatment related documents are there,
all of them have to be sent to them by making a file, both
soft copy and hard copy,
after that they verify it again
and it takes up to a month for the payment to
come, if a company
is good then the money comes within 15 days also,
secondly we talk about reimbursement claim, if the
cashless ones are hospital people then they will get the
money withdrawn anyhow, the
biggest problem
comes with reimbursement claim people
because they do not know how the process happens,
after how many days the money
comes, how many days it takes in verification,
how many days it takes in processing,
after the claim is passed and the money
comes in your account, so what happens in resources is
that first of all you people have to fill Claim Form A
and Claim Form B, if you are claiming
pre and post bills then
you have to fill only Claim Form A, so
when you  After filling the form and submitting your bill, the
insurance company or TPA
verifies your bill, that is, it
goes to the hospital and verifies it,
sends its investigator there and
checks whether the patient was actually
admitted or not, for how many days he was admitted,
whether any tests were done, that is, it
verifies all the things, it takes at
least 7 to 15 days to verify it,
some insurance company or TP
takes less time, some takes more time, I am
telling you in both minimum and maximum time, it takes
7 to 15 days for
verification, when that
thing is verified from there, then they
process it internally, they analyze all the bills
like the doctor
sitting there checks if the patient was suffering, his
vitals are matching with it or not,
or the lab tests done on the basis of which the
patient was admitted, was he a fit
patient for admission or not, then that assessment is done of the
entire case by the
team there  The TPA team or the
insurance company team, the
medical team, or the claim
processing team, both process it. It takes
15 to 30 days for you.
Some companies take less time, some
insurance companies take more time, so the minimum time is
15 days
and the maximum time is 30 days.
Within this day, they do their
assessment, verification,
internal verification.
What happens after that? When your
claim is passed, your money is
transferred to your account within 10 days.
You
can check its status online by entering your claim number
or
you can also find out your status by talking to customer care. During these three
processes, i.e. verification,
processing and payment,
if there is any query regarding additional documents in your claim, that is, they
need some more documents or they ask for questions
from your documents.  If they are not satisfied, they
want to ask some questions from you or
from the hospital, or want to
ask the doctor something about your treatment,
when a query is raised in your claim, then
you have to reply to it
within a week to 10 days and
then the time of the process increases, that is, the process of
getting the money, the
time of the claim process increases, that is, if the
normal time is one month, then it may take one
and a half month,
two months, two and a half
months also, so what you have to do is
that in the beginning itself you should
not give such a chance to the insurance company that
any query should be raised in your claim or the
requirement of any documents should be
read by the insurance company or TPA, whatever the insurance
company asks for, provide it to
them in advance, attach the final bill, discharge summary
claim form A, claim form B, medicine
bills, lab test bills, all the bills
in supporting form and send it to them so that
no query is raised and your claim gets passed easily.
If a query is raised, then the time will increase.  It
comes to the point that
even after the claim is passed, the money is not coming or your claim is
stuck, it is showing in processing, it is
showing in verification, then
what happens in that condition, if it is a
cashless claim, then the hospital people
can write an email to them, they have a particular email
ID, who are networking people,
but those who have individual policies, that is, those who
process the reimbursement claim, who are policy holders,
they do not have such a particular email
ID, they have to
send an email to the customer care email ID, you
can write in Hindi as well as in English, in the
subject of that email, you have to
mention your claim number,
mention the name of the patient and then
you have to find out the status with them,
tell us the status of this claim, where is this claim, is it
still in process, has the payment been made or
not, what is the reason or is there any
query regarding some additional document
because the status which we see on their website or
their app or portal, then
there  The exact status is not known
because their internal software or
their portals are always
updated, so
when you talk to customer care there,
you will get the exact information from there.
You can speed up your process by talking to customer care and email also so
that your money is
transferred to your account as soon as possible. So in
today's video, I
told you that after the claim is passed,
in how many days your money will come to your account, I have
told you that its process is complete, I have also told you about cashless claim
and reimbursement claim, so I
hope you have
understood the video, still if you have
any question in your mind regarding this video, then you
can ask me by writing in the comment section,
apart from this, if you have any query related to your health insurance claim,
you can definitely
ask me questions,
you will definitely get answers to all the questions in a limited time, so that's all
in today's video, if you liked the
video then like the video and the
channel  Subscribe and
press the bell icon so that you keep getting notifications of new videos.
See you in the next video, till then,
goodbye.